Hello everyone.
Before we actually begin work in Python anywhere it's the pleasure site to talk about it and a version
control when we think about deploying our project will probably be useful to have all our code posted
somewhere online.
This way we can easily call it from the virtual server hosting service we are using.
So before we actually do that let's talk about what is gets in what gets hub a really common misconception
for beginners is that get and get a hub or the same thing.
They are NOT get is a version control system that helps keep track of changes in your code gets hub
is a company and the Web site helps manage it and host your files on their site gets is an open source
totally free version control system gets hub is a company that utilizes that and adds extra tools on
top of that and host your files your code on their site.
They offer extra tools for collaboration and things of that manner.
So the main idea for us is that you can have one repository with various historic checkpoints that you
can always refer back to it with a history of any changes and that is what is known as a version control
a different control over all the various versions of the particular file you had is one of the most
popular code hosting sites on the web and it allows you to easily get a version control and keep copies
of the code on the web.
And the first step is free to go to get home and create a free account then will download get to our
computer and upload our project repository to get help.
If you're already a student that knows how to get Herb and create an upload to a repository just upload
your project folder to the people you make and skips to the next lecture for everyone else it's good
to get help dotcom explore how to use it and get everything set up online.
You at hub dot com.
OK so here I am at get hub basically offers two levels of service.
One is free and the free level of service basically works almost exactly the same as the paid version
except for the paid version you get to keep your files private.
If you're not paying and it's free then you have to publicly host everything.
So anyone can see your code.
Obviously if you're a corporation or a company or you want to keep your code hidden from other people
because it has proprietary knowledge you would have to pay get hub to host your stuff on there.
Right now we'll just focus on the free get held account.
So were you going to do is if you don't have one yet click sign up and then sign up for a hub you'll
set up a personal account username email address password choose your plan will be a free plan and then
step 3.
Some tailor your experience stuff so don't worry about that.
All right so once you sign up then go ahead and sign in.
I'm going to sign in right now.
And you'll get something that looks similar to this you probably won't have everything that I have here.
You can see that with dot com you can collaborate if other people show their changes.
So for example here's a constructor of mine and there's his account and he's working on a project with
me.
So if I click on this I'll take me to the project we're working on and I can actually view the changes.
So in green is what is currently there and in red is what was removed or deleted.
So that's basically the way we can collaborate people and get a job.
And it's also really nice because pretty much every major open source project is now being hosted on
Hub's if you ever want to contribute to Django or any other open source project you can do it with your
account.
But we're going to be doing is setting up a repository.
So we will click right here on your repository and you'll give this a repository name so something short
and memorable.
So we will call this jingo cash deployments bash example you can give a description so we'll say repo
for our jingo deployments example and then I can set this private or public because I actually pay for
an account here.
Obviously I'll set it public because that's what you're going to be doing and whether or not you want
to initialize it Fareed me is up to you.
We don't need one so we won't do it.
And then we can also say add ignore which is files that you want to ignore and it's version control.
We also don't really need to worry about that.
So let's just create the repository for now.
So then we have the quick set up.
So if you've done this kind of thing before which I assume you haven't there's a quick way to set up
this repository onto your desktop.
Now there are many ways to do this but we're going to be focusing on using the command line to do this
so we can interact with this in the Adam text editor.
There's a lot of other ways including a full desktop application that comes with get how free.
Or they can use actually visualizes process or you can just quickly S-sh or use HTP here.
Well we're going to do is use the command line at our terminal or a command prompt but in order to do
that we actually need to download it itself.
So far we've only set up our account on hub.
We actually download get to our computer.
So the way we do that is you come to this Web site and this is if you just google search gets there
should be one of the first things that comes up.
It gets as CNN.com.
That's I-T bash as CNN.com and this is where it gets the free and open source version control system.
It's hosted so you can download it.
You're going to do is depending whether you're on Windows or Mac etc. you're going to download it.
So if you're on a Mac it means you may already have it on your computer so make sure to check for that.
The way to check is if you go to your command prompt.
So for instance here I just popped up my command prompt or if you're on your Mac your terminal or terminal
for Linux is well to check if you already have it.
Go get dash dash version enter.
And if you get something out that means you actually already have get installed and you don't need to
worry about this doesn't really matter what version really any version should work that's been downloaded
in the past Um no three years.
But let me walk through the actual download process for you.
Especially if you're on a Windows computer that can be a little confusing maybe but if you're a beginner
so going to click download for Windows says Downloading starting and then it's going to download that
for me.
So it's about 30 megabytes going forward in time for this download to finish.
And then once you've downloaded either the DNG or an executable whatever for your format go ahead and
click on it.
Make sure you downloaded the correct 32 or 64 bit
allow it to make changes on your computer.
Sorry if I went black there for a second and then we're going to do is say next except that license.
Go ahead and save it to get and then you can add some additional stuff to this.
And I would just accept all default options so just keep everything default.
Click next and then click Next again.
And here's where we have three options especially if you're on Windows the one you need to make sure
is that it actually adds to the path.
So this one right here it says Use get from the windows command prompt says adding it to your path.
That's exactly what you need.
Because if it's not added to your path you won't be able to call it from the command line.
So then you can click next.
Then there's the check out either Windows style as is or other Cheka options.
You may not see this tab if you're on a Mac or Linux so don't worry about it but we'll just select the
default again next.
Again you can hit any of these that we'll continue.
And then we can just again go to defaults and then you can hit install.
So once you hit we'll begin installing it onto your computer.
So I'm going to forward in time until the installation is finished.
So once this is done we can just say don't worry about doing the release notes for a launch you get
bashed to it finished and then go back to your command prompt either in Adam or by itself where you're
terminal.
So once you've completed that installation and have finished you can go back to your command prompt
or your terminal.
Sometimes you have to restart your computer in order for this to take effect.
They should be able to now type gets dash dash version version enter and see the same version of whatever
you just downloaded.
In my case it was version 2.1 2.0.
Again if you're seeing something that says get not recognized as a command try restarting your computer
and then entering this again if you're still having issues.
Go ahead and post the Q&A forums but definitely search the Q&A forums for any specific questions that
you may have.
It's most likely the questions already been answered about this.
All right now that I'm here at Adam one and going to do is inside Gengel lectures or wherever you so
choose.
I'm going to add a new folder and this will be the folder that's going to contain a subdirectory of
our actual get repository.
So you can call this folder whatever you want I'll call it my underscore base.
It really doesn't matter what you call it.
But then where you're going to do is CD into my underscore base and this is where we're actually going
to initialize our get repository and all the commands we're going to be running our right here on this
create a new repository on the command line.
You don't actually need to worry about this first command that's just going to create a read me for
you.
We don't really care about that so it will do instead is an going to collapses.
We see a little more room start with this.
And it's so we'll say get in it.
G I t in its enter.
And this is going to initialize an empty get repository right at my base.
And then what I'm going to do is you don't actually need to do the add.
And so what we'll do is copy and paste one of our projects here.
So open up the directory tree and that any of the projects we've been working on is totally fine.
I will copy the learning templates project from Gengel level floor.
Again you can do anything.
So we will copy this and then anoint to put it into my base so we'll say paste.
So now I have learning templates and then when I'm going to do is do get at it.
And instead of the read me the M.D. That's related to this ongoing same gets added and then just a period.
And that basically means add everything.
Right.
So now we have some couple of warnings here about wine and things things like that pie files.
For now you don't need to worry about these line endings.
That's totally fine.
So if you get a bunch of warnings like that that's totally OK.
All right so now that we've added everything we're going to need to commit everything.
And the way you can do a commit it's also shown right here on this get commit.
First commit you could you could just copy and paste that line.
But all right it out and say gets the minutes and I will say dots.
Everything that we just added say dash am and then a single quote.
First single quote.
Basically this message right here of first can be interchange for any message that you will want to
see on it so you can say something like oh.
Added learning templates project or fixed issue on this file or whatever.
As long as it's just in quotes as a string that's going to be the commit message.
So will enter and now it's going to be committed and you should see something like it's creating a bunch
of modes.
That's exactly what you want and then the next thing is to say this line get remote at origin and then
the actual Your L Sugoi to this when I am going to just directly copy and paste it going to copy this
and then right click here paste it and then hit Enter.
That's all I need to do.
And then what next line is is the string here get push that you orig. master.
So copy that paste it and you can always pause the video in case you need time to write these lines
then enter.
This should push all the changes that we just made to get a hub.
This might take a little while.
The pending on your internet connection and you may also be prompted to log in so you see here.
I was prompted to log in.
You may be prompted to log in at your actual terminal reata provide your email and password.
I have a Windows desktop server so I can just log in here I'm going to do that now.
So I just logged in and now it's going to do it for me.
Most likely you'll be asked to log in at the actual command prompt.
If you don't have those settings like I do but everything should have been pushed to see it's writing
the objects and sending them on line so everything should have been pushed to the actual repository.
So let's come back here.
We can expand this window and then click on whatever happens to call your an example here.
Now I see learning templates and it was pushed by Portsea.
Right now that's actually my personal Gebe account.
That's my dog Frankie sleeping there.
But anyways you should be able to see the files and that's all we need to do for now.
So it looks like there's a commit message first.
Again you could call that whatever you want.
Well I can see the delays commit it was 2 minutes ago.
Perfect.
That's all we need to do and we are ready to go.
If you have any questions on any of these steps feel free to post the Kewney forums.
Make sure to search the Kewney forums to see if your question has been answered.
This is a really common place where XLE mistyping a character not following the instructions exactly.
Or maybe just getting lucky if the install can cause hiccups.
Don't worry about it.
I'm always here to help out but make sure you search first because your old question has probably already
been asked before.
All right thanks everybody and I'll see you at the next lecture.